<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:x="http://java.sun.com/jsf/composite/htmlx" xmlns:a4j="http://richfaces.org/a4j"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:define name="title">The SCAPE Planning Suite - Knowledge Browser</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="content">

		<h:form id="mainform">

            <a4j:outputPanel layout="block" rendered="#{param['sessionExpired'] == 'true'}" styleClass="warning">
                Your session has expired because of a long inactivity period. <br/>
                Please try again to execute your desired action. <br/>
            </a4j:outputPanel>

			<div class="menu-container-information">
				<p>
				    In planning, you have to evaluate potential preservation actions against your requirements. 
				    That includes defining a number of specific decision criteria that are driving the evaluation. 
				    We analysed hundreds of decision criteria from more than a dozen case studies, categorised them, 
				    mapped them to established quality models and analysed how to measure the different kinds of criteria 
				    so that evaluation and decision making is based on real measures instead of vague judgements or industry 
				    averages. Our <a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asi.21527/abstract" target="_blank">article
				     in JASIST</a> discusses the measurement side of things and the distribution of criteria across different groups.
				</p>
				<p>
					Now this is quite interesting in itself, but does not tell us how important decision criteria are: 
					If I have created a plan using 35 critera that I considered in my decision, which of these were actually 
					the critical ones? What if I evaluated this one incorrectly? What are the most critical aspects across multiple 
					organisations? How much of a decision about image migration is typically driven by considerations about the target 
					formats?
				</p>
				<p>
				    To answer questions like these, we built the tool you see here. The Knowledge Browser quantifies the impact of 
				    decision criteria and can show you what effect different measures have in the real world: It computes impact 
				    factors for criteria such as "Average relative filesize resulting from a migration" or "Compound impact of all 
				    format-related decision criteria in case studies on images", all based on real-world case studies from Plato's 
				    knowledge base. In our <a href="http://www.ifs.tuwien.ac.at/~becker/pubs/hamm_ipres2011.pdf" target="_blank">IPRES 
				    article</a> and the <a href="http://www.scape-project.eu/deliverable/d14-1-report-on-decision-factors-and-their-influence-on-planning-draft" target="_blank">SCAPE deliverable D14.1</a>, 
				    we discuss the methods and techniques behind this and summarise results.
			    </p>				
				<p>
					Here, you can
					<ul>
						<li>filter the set of plans to do the analysis on,</li>
						<li>analyse the impact of single decision criteria, and</li>
						<li>create groups of criteria that are of specific interest to you,</li>
						<li>analyse the impact of these criteria sets.</li>
					</ul>
				</p>
			</div>

			<div class="menu-container-actions">
				<ul class="actions">

					<li class="home-item"><h:commandLink action="#{planSelector.init}">
							<div class="home-item-container">
								<div class="home-item-text">Select plans to analyse</div>
								<div>
									<h:graphicImage value="resources/gfx/system-search.png" width="80px" height="80px" />
								</div>
							</div>
						</h:commandLink></li>

					<li class="home-item"><h:commandLink action="#{kBrowser.init}">
							<div class="home-item-container">
								<div class="home-item-text">Analyse criteria</div>
								<div>
									<h:graphicImage value="resources/gfx/criteria_set.png" width="80px" height="80px" />
								</div>
							</div>
						</h:commandLink></li>

					<li class="home-item"><h:commandLink action="#{criteriaHierarchyHelper.init}">
							<div class="home-item-container">
								<div class="home-item-text">Manage criteria set</div>
								<div>
									<h:graphicImage value="resources/gfx/preferences.png" width="80px" height="80px" />
								</div>
							</div>
						</h:commandLink></li>

					<li class="home-item"><h:commandLink action="#{criteriaHierarchyHelper.loadAllHierarchiesDataForSummary}">
							<div class="home-item-container">
								<div class="home-item-text">Analyse criteria sets</div>
								<div>
									<h:graphicImage value="resources/gfx/criteria_set.png" width="80px" height="80px" />
								</div>
							</div>
						</h:commandLink></li>

					<li class="home-item"><a href="/../plato/index.jsf">
							<div class="home-item-container">
								<div class="home-item-text">Planning Tool</div>
								<div>
									<h:graphicImage value="resources/gfx/plato-logo-notext.png" width="80px" height="80px" />
								</div>
							</div>
					</a></li>
					
				</ul>
			</div>

		</h:form>

	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
